and if you do get in a term sheet it
will be they'll be tricking you nons
Silicon Valley VCS sometimes like to
invest in tranches like they'll say
we'll give you a million today and then
if you hit a million in Revenue will'll
give you another million that sounds
great it's a ripoff because it's a
one-way option you have to take their
money if you hit it at the same price as
before like tranches are a terrible deal
it's the only money you can get on
planet Earth then yeah take it but run
from trones if you
can but you can't get the opposite you
can't you have to earn it and so the
real question isn't can I get this in my
term sheet the real question is do you
do second and third checks great and
what typically speaking what would it
take to earn it what would it take
that's the right way to ask what would
it take to earn it welcome
everybody we are continuing to reick off
our Workshop Wednesdays after saster
annual so this week we're going to do a
very Niche topic but then we'll take
questions on VC financing bootstrapping
and there's almost there is a surplus of
content on venture capital on social
media mainly because the subset of EC's
are are so active and sharing so much
and I think it's great when I was a
Founder the first time there was no
content Adventure Capital it was all a
ripoff industry and it is great to have
a lot of
transparency but everyone if I could
give you one bit of advice from V
content from VCS it's that everybody's
talking their game from the earliest
stage folks which I love like YC to the
latest growth stage folks like great
ones like like Vista iconic incredible
content incredible advice great stuff
but everyone's talking their game
they're all biased from preed to B to C
to
IPO so I put together this list a little
while back and then want to do it live
and we can talk about
it some hard-earned lessons on an
eight-part test to identify bad
investors before signing a term sheet
because people get this wrong Founders
get this wrong Founders think their guts
tell them what a good investor is over
the long run but I found over the years
their guts are generally
wrong most Founders have a lot of life
experience with their products with
their industry with selling but you just
don't have a lot of life experience
meeting investors and Venture
capitalists and so people make decisions
based on guts based on Celebrity based
on Vibes and that's all fine but it's
not enough it's not enough because if
nothing else you're literally just
trying to get a little bit of capital
into your startup and we forget that our
investors were stuck with them for
decades like they don't come off the cap
table until you sell the company or
years after an IPO and so much happens
that next decade so much will change
you'll probably have to hire three or
four management teams it's possible one
of your co-founders will leave always
rough but the cap table you can't get
rid of the PC's on your cap people you
just can't so I wonder an eight part
test maybe it'll spur a little
conversation a little thought and when
you go to raise capital for the first
time the second time the next time maybe
dust off this eight part checklist it's
also on sas.com and if you have options
think through this if you don't have
options if you need the money and only
one person will give you the money 95
times not always 95 times out of 100
take it but if you do have options here
are eight things um to think about okay
so this first one sounds as blindingly
obvious as it could be but I'll tell you
the mistakes Founders make the first one
is so blindingly obvious and then we get
into some after this that are a little
bit less obvious
talk to as many Founders they've
invested in as you can do reference
checks and you will see this advice on
Twitter from a lot of
folks but I think the advice they they
give is just slightly wrong first of all
some folks say don't talk to their
successes talk to their losers talk to
the founders that fail to really get to
know VC's and and by all means do that
if you can find someone they invested in
that absolutely failed go talk to them
but I find no matter what advice there
is on Tik Tok you don't learn much from
failures and Founders that never got
anywhere that never got any Revenue that
never built anything they don't even
really know what to look for an investor
and when you fail I'd like to tell you
that most Founders ethically that they
act their best when their companies fail
and some do one of my very favorite
stories um you can see it on the andreon
harwood's blog when slack before slack
it was it was a gaming company and it
was failing and Stuart reached out to
andreon and Saidi I want to give you the
last money back
I've got this chat app I've got this
business chat app we're calling it slack
I think it might make it we've got no
revenue and I'm giving up our our game
companies and work tiny spec and they
said no keep the money Stuart keep going
we're fine losing the rest of the money
we think you're a great entrepreneur I'd
like to tell you that I've heard that
story from the handful of Founders I've
invested and work with it as fail but I
often haven't I've often actually heard
Founders maybe not handle the situation
as well as they can and I get it as a
Founder I almost failed every single
time I get the ass but my only point is
I'm not sure you learned Too Much from
the failures you probably learned from
the folks that went the distance and the
folks that went the distance know the
VCS that invested in them and on their
board the best so in any event talk if
you really aren't sure whether you want
Lin on your board or whomever or Byron
deer or whoever lots of great folks
Keith R boy Eileen Lee all these great
folks if you're not sure talk to as
diverse a set of Founders they've
invested in and just two notes on this
don't expect all the founders to love
them if all the founders love them you
have what I call there's no gender
attribution in this I should have come
up with a gender-free term the good guy
everything's great everything's great
now you could do worse than the good guy
the bad guy of course is worse the one
that sort of tries to destroy your
company but that's less common than the
the apocryphal stories say but the ones
that are really engaged the ones that
are there there may have been some
frictions don't expect every single
founder they've invested in to love them
to death but get as many stories and
most importantly listen don't listen to
how good they are how nice they are oh
Amelia was such a good person ask how
supportive they were this is the
question that matters how supportive
were they
and how supportive there aren't your
investors are not that important they
don't work there every day they come and
go but they are one of the few people
that will be there the entire Journey
you're stuck with them as we talked
about so ask how supportive they were
and find out that's the number one way
you can reference check your investors
okay this one is something that almost
no Founders understand and it is so
important when you go to raise money it
is so important when you go to raise
money
um ask how many Investments they wrote
they write second and third checks into
ask how many Investments they write
second and third checks to the reality
is if you read the stories of a lot of
successes almost all of them had patches
where as medior as the growth seemed
they were p is when growth slowed when
things were harder when they needed more
money when they almost ran out and never
expect an investor to give you more
money that is one of the top if if this
presentation was the top eight mistakes
Founders make after they raise money
number one or number two was never
expect anyone to give you any more money
that's not how it works but when you're
in the middle when you're doing okay but
not great some VCS will give you more
money and some won't and there's some
judgment calls here there's some other
reasons but the other fact is some most
smaller funds are not wired to write
these checks they're just not wired to
and ask how many checks they write into
the a nerdy question is how many
reserves do you keep per investment like
how much extra money do you hold back
you'll find that large firms that the
multi-billion dollar firms often have a
one to2 ratio in other words for every
dollar they put into you initially they
earmark another $2 dollar they might put
in more they might put in nothing but
they of their pool of capital they might
earmark it so a billion dollar VC fund
which sounds large and it is large but
of that maybe only two or 300 million
might go into first checks and the rest
might go into second checks and expenses
but just ask and what Founders get wrong
these days there's a lot of both new
funds smaller funds that have cool VCS
and cool social media personalities
running them they don't have any money
for second checks and look that's not
all bad number one is find the people
that are supportive and will help you
but I'm just going to summarize with
this first line VCS that don't write
second checks are less valuable to you
because you'll probably need one VC that
write second checks are less valuable so
for me all things being close to equal
if I liked Amelia and Jason if they both
gave me a term sheet but Amelia has
reserves and writes second or third
checks and Jason's so great and he has
that cool saster thing and he does those
Workshop Wednesdays but he doesn't write
second or third checks I would go with
Amelia right and when I invest I've got
about one to one coverage I save a
dollar for the next check versus the one
but I would say most folks that invest
in my stage which is late SE they don't
so something to understand that I've
literally never seen a Founder ask about
that every single founder should ask
about how often do you write second and
third checks and what are your criteria
to do because you're probably going to
need one you're probably gonna need one
okay third one and this has changed a
lot over the years control is not as big
a deal with VCS as it used to be if you
talk to folks that have been around for
10 years or longer 15 years or longer in
startups they'll tell you some Horror
Story about how some old fuddy daddy VC
pushed me off the board some old V fuddy
dudy VC pushed me out of my own company
that was so great that stuff did
happen but and it still happens today
which we'll talk about but it doesn't
happen like it used to like the this in
some ways it ended with Google and when
Kleiner and Sequoia invested in Google
they forced the founders to give up
control of the company and bring in Eric
Schmid obviously Google had a good run
okay it had a good run but that was
about it after that Founders that had a
hot hand were like no the next Larry and
Sergey we're we're just going to run it
ourselves and there's a great saster
post if you look at it about how many
SAS companies when the IPO are run by
their Founders it's 90% it's like 90%
And you can look through all of them and
I think of the 10% most of those
Founders said hey it's not for me like I
want to bring in a professional CE so
it's pretty rare this drama that you
hear on in old movies and from folks
it's just not the vibe what's more
common today is that BC's just check out
out when they think you're not doing
well they just ghost you we could talk
about why they just move on to do
another deal but control is still an
issue for a variety of reasons and what
you don't want so I would worry less and
we'll talk about this I would worry less
about whether these VCS are going to
push me out or take control of the
company nobody wants that nobody has
time anymore but you don't want them too
controlly and there's a rough metric
just rattle around in the back of your
head there's a rough metric for each 10%
of your company you sell roughly you're
going to give up a board seat so if
someone buys 10 % 15% 20% with a big
check in your round and they ask for a
board seat like you can argue but it's
pretty accepted right if you think about
a pie chart of 100% let's say you sell
three this is very rough math but let's
say you sell three chunks of 20% and
each of the founders own 20% each five
times 20 there should be five board
seats the founders each get one and and
the investors that buy 20 each get one
too think of it as roughly proportionate
to your cap table roughly so I think the
biggest flag is when someone that
doesn't buy double digits ask for a
board seat that's a problem and that
does happen and I think when someone
that buys enough of your company for one
seat asks for two that's an issue too
that's when you should push back and if
you push back if they ask for a little
bit too much control I don't know that I
would take it too seriously but if they
do just push back once if they ask for
too much and if it's an issue I would
move on I would move on but don't but if
you have nobody on your board if you
have nobody that cares sometimes that
can be great like it it does it
sometimes be great in a very Capital
efficient company if you're just going
to raise a little bit of money and and
you're already profitable you don't need
to give up a board seat or much but if
you want to go big what you will find is
someone on your cap table has to care
and there's no matter what it looks like
on social media after a big exit
everyone paded them s back I found
usually there's only one investor on
your Syndicate that actually cares
that's actually there for you in the and
actually will write that second or third
check when others won't someone has to
do the work and I used to think that
this idea that VC's did any work I used
to laugh I'm like what do you me work
you don't build the company you don't go
out and sell the customers you write a
check and pop over to a few meetings and
read some emails and that is true for
the that frankly that's probably what
the majority of EC is do and it's not
bad because you need the capital it's
risky Capital it's hard to make money
and Venture but at the end of day when
when things are tougher when you need
help when you need more money when you
need to recruit other Executives I find
only one of them really does the work
and it's usually someone that's going to
be on your board so I wouldn't be
totally I wouldn't read all the stuff
the internet and say nobody should be on
your board if you're raising tons of
money but make sure it's proportionate
to your cap table to the size of your
cap
to okay number four this is another one
that nobody asks these are the two
things you got to ask investors today
that nobody asks the one I talked about
is how much do you keep in reserve how
many second and third checks write how
much do you keep in reserve just ask no
one asks that that way that way you know
the odds that they will write to another
check this one is accelerated ask them
if they're going to be there in 10
years ask them if they'll be you're
going to be there in 10 years probably
it takes 10 years to build something big
and Sass sas's 10 years old we're just
getting going we're just getting going
it takes 10 years and you will find
there was a great fund of some
incredible investors just today raised
their own fund of 350 million but those
are three Partners from other funds they
don't work at that fund anymore no not
judging I get it but there is a lot of
turnover in Venture and there are
there's two reasons are should nor
venture to
learn the folks that maybe are not great
investors get fired slowly usually don't
get fired in a month or a year but after
two to three years four years five years
if you can't if you can't get any good
ones done you'll be slowly moved out of
venture funds and also maybe after eight
or 10 years if you used to have a hot
hand and your hand is decayed you will
be slowly moved out and what happens is
when it typically happens when a VC firm
raises a new fund two fund 10 fund 12
and you'll see a nice article in Tech
crunch Jason and Amelia have moved on
from Big Venture fund when we raise a
new fund but really we got fired or
moved out and it's part of as it should
be investing is about returns if you
can't deliver the returns ultimately you
should be moved out it's not a charity
let me tell you it's not a charity which
we could talk about it is a brutal
industry but what it frankly means is if
you don't run the place you may not be
there you may not be there if your
returns are mediocre and
also if you're if you have a hot hand if
you're the hottest person at a VC fund
and they don't treat you well they don't
cut you in properly you'll just go raise
your own fund you will just go raise
your own fund right there is no economic
reason to sit around at a large fund
with a tiny amount of Economics when
you're bringing in all the winners when
someone will give you your own fund and
you can keep all the economics going out
on your own if you have a hot if you're
a good investor can be 10 20 times more
lucrative than working for somebody else
so whether you're the VC that you really
love that good guy no gender here good
guy woman or man that good guy that you
love maybe a mediocre investor or they
may be so hot they're gonna leave if
they if their name isn't on the door
right if it's not Lenin or aara Ventures
ask if they'll be there in 10 years and
you will if you will probably hear a
hesit
ation yeah of course darl I'm planning
to be Daryl I might be asked and does it
mean you shouldn't take their money if
you don't you're not sure they're going
to be in there in 10 years no but I got
to tell you all things being equal you
are so much better off if they're there
the journey imagine you need that second
check or your third check it's hard
enough in general if you're only doing
okay what if your partner's gone and
they bring in this new guy new person
Trisha who's never even heard of you you
think Trisha has any juice at the fund
you think Trisha's going to put her neck
on the line for you to get that extra
check no chance when I've invest and I
see this happen someone leaves and
someone new comes on the board they're
always very nice people but they don't
stick their neck out for the company so
it's a big negative when the investor
that invests in your company leaves it
is a big negative it is a big negative
you're stuck with a placeholder for
years and years so ask and that's why if
you can the person that's running the
place they may not have as much time
they may have more on their plate but
boy I'd rather have someone that's
actually there with me on the journey
okay
five if you really want to learn what
it's like to work with the VC sitting
there in their fancy office driving
their new
cars getting really fit doing a lot of
lunches and dinners and meetings just
got back from con lions and then off to
somewhere else Tokyo SAS Summit where
we'll be in November come see us it'll
be great um
this is one that you you ask and then
because they won't they never they won't
be ready for them ask them what's the
toughest founder of EC experience
they've ever been through and what they
learned from it ask what it is no one
asks you're going to get an honest
answer are you going to get a perfect
answer are you g to get a slightly
political answer yes but just ask ask
ideally at a meal like always before you
sign a term sheet you have a meal with
this person VC's used to always have
meals with Founders when they gave them
a term sheet to get to know each other
but you should it's a great way to do
reverse diligence and when you're
waiting when you're waiting for the
tiramisu to come just say almost just
like a casual question out of nor hey
what's the toughest experience ail
you've ever been through with a
portfolio company what' you learn from
it they're gonna take a beat it's going
to be awkward but you're going to learn
a lot from that question because there's
always frictions see what they learn
from
it okay six this one's a niche one this
one's a niche one actually going to my
prior point I actually don't think this
is important but I think it will allay
your fears in some cases ask when
they've brought in outside CEOs to run
their startups ask when they've brought
in outside CEOs ask when and as a rough
rule the bigger the fund the more often
they are able to bring in outside cosos
because at Big funds and and and they
have benches like they're grooming these
benches bringing in xcos XC X CMOS that
they know in case they need one to run
one of their portfolio companies at in
extreme the huge private Equity firms
that buy SAS compan the
vistas Tomo braavos they they explicitly
have these networks because a lot of
times the cosos don't stay with the
deals after they buy the company so the
bigger the funds the more they groom
these networks of outside CEOs a small
fund doesn't do this at all I don't know
any seed fund that has out a network of
outside cosos to run their companies
it's not their business model but again
as we talked about in the beginning it's
pretty uncommon these days that unless
there's fraud or mismanagement or you
run out of money twice if you burn that
second check and you run out of money
people get stressed but it just doesn't
happen that I just don't see that
anyone's asked to step down for their
company but ask what but it does happen
so ask what happened ask when they
brought an out CC and what happened so
if this is something you're anxious
about and I find a lot of Founders are
still anxious about control just ask
when it h when it happened at their at
when it last happened and again maybe
between chamu and coffee or I don't know
maybe when the salad comes in in just
ask when it happens and you'll find out
like I've never done it I've never even
not only have I never considered doing
this because I don't care I wouldn't
even know somebody like I I think
virtually I I wouldn't invest in a
Founder that I didn't think was better
than me and go to the distance and I
don't know any magical outside CEO that
doesn't know the product that didn't
work on the codebase that hasn't visited
a thousand customers I don't know anyone
that I would trust to go in and run a
startup in fact I've had the few times
in my career I've seen outside cosos
brought in by other VCS I've fought it
pretty hard once I asked for all my
money back from that VC I said if you're
going to if you're going to talk get rid
of this founder
I don't believe in the company I believe
it's this product's too complicated I
believe that yes the growth has slowed
but I believe in this founder I just
want my money back I didn't get my money
back but but just ask this
question okay here's number seven what
was your worst investment and why okay
now this one is a freaking great
question it's a great question and and
you might not get it you might think
this is a throwaway question okay you
might oh worst investment I want to hear
about how I want to hear about how you
made all the money in WhatsApp and how
you're the first investor in canva and
samsara and toast those are good stories
um but the worst one the worst because I
will tell you A lot has changed the last
four years in particular every investor
that has been around for a while has
fraud in their portfolio it is not just
FDX it is not just fast there is micr
fraud there is fraud on a $2 million
round a $10 million it's all over and
there is bad behavior
all over the place on these imploding
startups and if you want to know what
it's like when the chips are down with
the VC just ask what they'll all know
this question what's the worst
investment I know mine it's the the
biggest the investment I lost the most
and I know why and if you ask me I would
tell you I would tell you I would tell
you why it was ethical lapses why it was
other issues but you will get no one
asks this and if you again if you ask it
at an unguarded moment they're going to
instantly remember they're going to
instantly remember the one where the
behavior problematic and tell them and
and you'll just learn a lot about them
as a human what their values are what
they care about um I think it's a great
one and again basically never seen this
question asked and it's a gift to hear
the answer to just
listen and the flip side this is the
final one I'm going to have for your
little cheat sheet because people ask
what's your fa what's the F what's your
best investment favorite blah blah blah
blah everyone that was early in slack
will tell you how great Stuart was and
he is great he is great I'll tell you
how rewarding it was to invest in figman
in the early days when Dylan was still
an intern at LinkedIn it was so so great
of course figma's worth 20 billion
they're going to tell you these great
stories but this one is a better one if
you want to get to know this investor
before you're stuck stuck for a decade
on their cap table ask what see they've
invested in they respect the most it
might not always be the biggest exit and
you'll learn and this is what they want
from you this is what they when you hear
what they've invested what they respect
the most this is what they value this is
what they value and if the more you're
like that whatever you
hear the better you're going to get
along anyhow this is my cheat
sheet ask them these questions make sure
you find out if they save money for a
second check that is so important and
and the other one is
just ask if they'll be there in 10 years
no one does this okay with that will
open it up to question so the first one
from David ask for him given that money
is lo to sign blank ndas are there any
other strategies or tools to avoid
copycat Behavior the stocky answer I've
gotten is just to run and run fast but
that's less ideal and this is something
that I think a lot of Founders still
worry about but maybe a tiny bit less
than in the past but it's a big issue
look no what why no VCS will sign an NDA
some like these late stage private
Equity firms the vistas the Tomar Rob
which are not relevant they will
actually sign ndas they have the
capabilities to thoughtfully sign them
but no VCS will and the simple reason is
they see not only do you meet hundreds
of startups a year but you get like
thousands of random inbounds and like
how I can't even tell you I I I don't I
must have gotten a hundred emails from
folks making a an AI SDR app if I signed
an NDA like I I can't even tell the I
can't even tell the difference anyway I
couldn't sign an NDA you just can't you
just can't so that's the Practical
reason but here's the thing back so just
get over it it's the reality the thing
is look most VCS don't care they don't
care they just don't care they're not
going to steal your ideas both cc's are
not Founders and creators who come in
and they hear your amazing idea then
they whisper to their 20 engineers in
the back of the office let's go copy
Allen and Bob's great application it has
happened in the history of mankind but
it almost never happens they just move
on they just don't care they just move
on and the third point is and this is my
advice to you at any stage including in
in potential acquirers and everything
like a lot of the crap ain't conf that
confidential man just go on Google go on
your website could I figure this out on
your website could I figure it out by
using your app is it really so
confidential I think that the amount of
stuff that actually is confidential is
about 5% of what we think it is there is
some Secret Sauce in our apps don't
share it but share you will gain so much
in this world if you share the stuff
that people people think is confidential
but it's not really that confidential it
builds so much trust so quickly I share
so much stuff all the time what are
sas's numbers how many people came how
many sponsors do have what do they pay I
share everything you can see it on our
blog like there's a couple things about
saster I don't want to share but you
wouldn't even know because they share so
much it's like a such a great tactic to
share stuff people think is confidential
it do it it should build trust it's
genuine because people don't do it but
calm yourself down there may be a few
things like what is really is your
special feature where you beat the
competition whether you want to share
that or not I don't know but get over it
almost nothing's actually confidential
is my final bit of advice so thanks for
the
question uh that's a good one Ash you've
had a few comments I don't if you have a
question you want to ask how how does
somebody think about so somebody's
always bootstrapped always bootstrapped
many the companies and I think it's
really helpful to hear from people who
are making this transition this
bootstrap where like always Capital
constrained always resource
constrained they just like talking to
other Founders or people who are like
thinking about making the sleep to
venture
model what's your sort of advice for
maybe either talking to other Founders
or talking to thec because it's like a
very different this is a very different
thing it is I think everyone gets this
wrong everyone gets this bootstrap
discussion wrong a couple of things one
it all normalizes around 8 to 10 million
in Revenue by the time you get to 8 to
10 million in Revenue if you're doing
software we have 80% gross margins 90%
gross margins one way to think about 10
million in revenue is it's $8 million of
cash to invest each year each year so
that's like raising a 16 to20 million
round so what you will find is outside
of frugality and other things there's
not a lot of difference between a $10
million bootstrap company in most cases
and a $10 million AR $10 million AR one
that raised 20 million there's just not
a lot of difference so it does
normalize and I remember we did a couple
years ago we did I did a great interview
with Ben Chestnut right after me
MailChimp sold for 12 billion and you
can watch this one it's great he's like
yeah we in the early days no one wanted
to give us any money we had we were yet
another email app we had high churn we
had this and then by the time the VCS
finally want to give me money I didn't
need it anymore we were so
profitable so that's a that's an example
of the crossover line where it doesn't
doesn't make any
difference or today the more subtle
point is after eight or 10 million you
could a lot of times you could raise the
capital but you don't have to so a lot
of times we're asked like for saster
annual and other things why don't you
have more bootstrap content and we have
done that but what I found is that it's
not as useful as you think because of
this crossover because of this
crossover now having
SLE and and then the second point I'll
make is and this also goes to the Ben
Chestnut story it's rarely a
choice no matter what the internet says
no matter how many people selling their
courses and Hawking things
say most
folks 99% of folks cannot raise Venture
Capital it is a niche asset class it is
a t no matter how it looks on the
internet the venture capital is a tiny
portion of private equity which is a
tiny portion of investing it is not for
everybody it is a small no matter how it
looks with these unicorn rounds it is a
small amount of capital and Absol terms
designed for a very small subset of
companies and that means that 99% of
startups can't even raise Venture
Capital they just can't so like this
idea that it's a choice that I get to
choose so should I take four to five
million or eight million or keep going
there are some startups that that do
make that choice but it is so uncommon
that it's almost there's almost too much
breath wasted on this as a choice like
you have to brute force it you have to
be founder mode and then at some point
like you will be able to raise capital
or you won't and and it may be when you
need it or maybe like MailChimp when you
just don't give a rat's ass anymore or
atlassian because you didn't need it so
I think these differences are overstated
is it harder to do it with less capital
of course right I wrote up a post a
couple years ago in the in the bester
cloud 100 the average one raised I think
over $300 million and only three three
out of 100 were bootstraps so it's hard
Capital helps there's no
question but at the end of the day I
think the real and this is my I know
it's a long answer I think the real
answer is that is bootstrapping takes
longer on average it took it lastly in
four more years for most folks it takes
longer that's a reality and it forces
you into business models where you have
to focus on where you always
win one of the best parts about Capital
really if you can piss it all the way
that's really surprisingly easy to do
but Capital really let you do a couple
things it let you hire more Executives
earlier and that's a big benefit no
doubt if you do it well
that's the number one thing and the
second thing it lets you do is it lets
you compete in areas where may this is
subtle where maybe you're less
competitive if you're bootstrapped you
basically need a zero dollar cat you
could do one or two things in marketing
you basically you need to be insanely
good at outbound or you need to be
insanely good at inbound and the CAC is
always almost nothing and you just can
only compete in the categories where you
for some quirky reason you have a
competitive Advantage a 10x feature a
nich thing Capital lets you expand at
the periphery and areas where you have
more competition where you're less
competitive and so those are negatives
but just stick to your Lane right and
hire sequentially that's life as a
bootstrapper it's highing sequentially
and stick into your lane and then suck
it up until 8 to 10 million and if you
get to 8 to 10 million and you're
growing even 40% 50% you will find you
can hire all the people you need that's
the thing if you get to 10% you're gr
40% that's another $4 million of cash
next year you can afford to hire a VP
sales or a CMO or whatever you need the
excuses at that point that's why I think
it normalizes and it's not really a
choice for almost everybody but thanks
for the question okay last one is from
tan hi yes so my question is around the
second check during these initial
conversations second check so if they're
open to it that's fantastic but how
detailed do you go in terms of locking
down the terms of that second check and
TR do you lock the multiplier and what
are considerations around how detailed
you go I was I was two inside baseball
on my point so let me step back from
you there's no Venture is a series at
least for slightly bigger funds it's a
series of measured risks and if you talk
to super successful funds that manage
more that first check sometimes they
even see it as an option okay I'm G to
give tnis a million dollars now and I'm
gonna see how it goes if it goes great
then I'll give you five if you're a
really big fund then I'll give you 20 or
100 these light speeds and Andre they
can fund them in infinitely and you look
at Thrive Capital just let open AI at
whatever 140 billion and I think they're
one of the lead they were the series a
investor because they just keep putting
money and money in you cannot lock down
the terms in any way in the beginning
and that's why you have to ask this
question in an unguarded moment just to
learn how they think about it it is an
option you will not you cannot get it in
a term sheet and if you do get it in a
term sheet it will be they'll be
tricking you nons Silicon Valley VCS
sometimes like to invest in tranches
like they'll say we'll give you a
million today and then if you hit a
million in Revenue we'll give you
another million that's sounds great it's
a ripoff because it's a one-way option
you have to take their money if you hit
it at the same price as before like
tranches are a terrible deal if it's the
only money you can get on planet Earth
then yeah take it but run from tranches
if you
can but you can't get the opposite you
can't you have to earn it and so the
real question isn't can I get this in my
term sheet the real question is do you
do second or third checks great and what
typically speaking what would it take to
earn it what would it take that's the
right way ask what would it take to earn
it so sorry if I misspoke or was less
clear clarify it more but it's more what
would it take to earn it and it's just a
fun question to have what would it take
to do and they're like oh we love to
support our companies no just push a
little bit more great I I love to hear
you say that but honestly your investing
day were at 50k Mr growing at this rate
and your in what would it take to earn a
second check and and if you if it's an
unguarded moment that's why I used to
hate these dinners with VCS but now I
realize they're great because you need
an unguarded moment in one of these very
structured relationships you do need an
unguarded moment it doesn't work over
Zoom F fly there whatever because you
want this offthe cuff moment maybe a
glass of wine after a glass of wine and
just ask what would it take to earn it
that's the way to ask it